# Release Note 6.0.0 ML Analytics Service

This version contains set of manual activites tasks that must be completed in order to improve to upgrade the ML Analytics Service code to 6.0.0. Please consider the following list of tasks to be completed.

## Devops Changes:

### New Environment Keys Added

We added new environment keys to the DevOps repository ([PR link](https://github.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-devops/pull/3849)) to as required for new features and functionality. For configuration and access to outside services or resources, these keys will be utilised.

Please note you don't need to deploy the DevOps repo. Once the PR is merged, deploy this service, env variable will automatically add from the DevOps branch.

In this release, we have introduced new environment variables as follows. 

    The Below value of these keys can be overridden or have values defined as needed using the private devops Repo path E.g. : ansible/inventory/staging/managed-learn/common.yml

            ml_analytics_authorization_access_token : "{{ ml_analytics_authorization_access_token }}"
            ml_analytics_client_id : "{{ ml_analytics_client_id }}"
            ml_analytics_client_secret : "{{ ml_analytics_client_secret }}"
            ml_analytics_username : "{{ ml_analytics_username }}"
            ml_analytics_password : "{{ ml_analytics_password }}"
            ml_analytics_createdBy : "{{ ml_analytics_createdBy }}"
            ml_analytics_api_base_url : "https://{{ domain_name }}/"
            ml_analytics_reports_store : "{{ cloud_service_provider }}"
            ml_analytics_reports_container : "{{ cloud_storage_privatereports_bucketname }}"
            ml_analytics_driver_memory: "{{ ml_analytics_driver_memory | default('50g') }}"
            ml_analytics_executor_memory: "{{ ml_analytics_executor_memory | default('50g') }}"


    We can use the existing user credentials or we can create new user by using below curl

            curl --location 'https://staging.sunbirded.org/api/user/v1/create' \
            --header 'Authorization: Bearer {{Bearer_token}}' \
            --header 'x-authenticated-user-token: {{access_token}}' \
            --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
            --data-raw '{
                "request": {
                    "firstName": "report",
                    "password": "{{password}}",
                    "email": "reportCreator@yopmail.com",
                    "userName": "ReportCreator",
                    "lastName": "creator",
                    "emailVerified":true,
                    "channel": "sunbird",
                    "roles":["PROGRAM_MANAGER", "PROGRAM_DESIGNER", "REPORT_ADMIN", "REPORT_VIEWER"]
                }
            }'

            Note: 
            1. The request body can be modified and used accordingly  

            2. The "ml_analytics_authorization_access_token" access token should have access to below api endpoints
                    
                    refresh_token = "auth/realms/sunbird/protocol/openid-connect/token"
                    access_token = "auth/v1/refresh/token"
                    backend_create = "api/data/v1/report/jobs/submit"
                    frontend_create = "/api/data/v1/report-service/report/create"
                    frontend_get = "/api/data/v1/report-service/report/get/"
                    backend_update = "/api/data/v1/report/jobs/"
                    frontend_update = "/api/data/v1/report-service/report/update/"
                    frontend_retire = "/api/data/v1/report-service/report/delete/"
                    backend_retire = "/report/jobs/deactivate/"
                    reports_list = "/api/data/v1/report-service/report/list"

            3. The value for ml_analytics_createdBy should be unique UUID of the user generated or being used and supplied to ml_analytics_username e.g. fb85a044-d9eb-479b-a55a-fer1bfaea14d

            4. The value for ml_analytics_client_secret is used for generating the keyclock access token. 
            e.g. fd241dce-46b9-47e1-97cf-1c7de7a44216

### Deploy ml-analytics-service

To retrieve the latest release tag for version 6.0.0, please visit the following URL: https://github.com/Sunbird-Ed/ml-analytics-service/releases/tag e.g. release-6.0.0_RC2


To proceed with the deployment process, follow the steps below:

    1. Log in to Jenkins.
    2. Go to Dashboard -> Deploy -> staging -> managed-learn -> ml-analytics-service.
    3. Click on "Build with parameters" and provide the latest release tag of ml-analytics-service in the field labeled "ml_analytics_version" and also provide the latest release branch of devops in the field labeled "private_branch". Initiate the build process.
    4. Once the job is completed, the services will be deployed on the staging environment



## Migrations

In this release, we have added automation script to create the reports using report config json file. it uses reports backend and frontend API's to create the report.

### Step 1: 

    Login to the ml-analytics-service server

### Step 2:

    Switch to the user

    sudo su data-pipeline

### Step 3:

    Activate virtual environment

    . /opt/sparkjobs/spark_venv/bin/activate

### Step 4:

    Navigate to path

    cd /opt/sparkjobs/ml-analytics-service/migrations/releases/6.0.0/

### Step 5:

    Run the script which will create backend and frontend report configs 

    python index.py

## Step 6:
    Running the Jenkins Job to Generate CSV and JSON in the Cloud
    To execute the Jenkins Job and generate the CSV and JSON files in the cloud, please follow the steps below:

    1. Log in to the VPN environment.
    2. Access the Jenkins UI by navigating to the appropriate URL.
    3. Once logged in, locate the "Deploy" section and select the desired environment (e.g., Staging, Production, etc.).
    4. In the selected environment, find the "DataPipeline" folder and click on it.
    5. Inside the "DataPipeline" folder, locate the "RunReportjob" job and click on it.
    6. On the job page, look for the option to "Build with Parameters" and click on it.
    7. You will be prompted to provide the required parameters for the job.
            1. Specify the "report_id" parameter with the appropriate value. ( you will find the values in this path - https://github.com/Sunbird-Ed/ml-analytics-service/tree/release-6.0.0/migrations/releases/6.0.0/config/backend/create or below 11th step Eg : ml_report_name )
            2. The "private_branch" parameter should default to the latest branch, so no action is needed unless specified otherwise.
            3. If there is a "branch_or_tag" parameter, it should be set to the same value as the "private_branch" parameter.
    8. Once you have entered the necessary parameters, click on the "Build" button to start the job.
    9. The Jenkins job will now run, executing the required tasks to generate the CSV and JSON files in the cloud.
    10. Monitor the job's progress through the Jenkins UI to ensure it completes successfully.
    11. Once the job finishes, the CSV and JSON files should be generated in the designated cloud storage location.

    Please note that the specific steps may vary depending on your Jenkins configuration and environment. Ensure you have the necessary permissions and access rights to perform these actions.

    report_id's to run in the RunReportjob:
        "ml_total_unique_users_new_api_new_dataa_pabitra_one",
        "ml_total_submissions_new_api_new_dataa_pabitra_two",
        "ml_total_entities_observed_api_new_dataa_pabitra_three",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_users_who_submitted_form_new_api_new_dataa_pabitra_four",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_entities_observed_new_new_new_api_new_dataa_pabitra_five",
        "ml_district_wise_no_of_submissions_vs_observation_status_api_new_dataaa_six",
        "ml_unique_users_who_started_form_api_new_dataa_pabitra_seven",
        "ml_district_wise_observation_status_and_entities_observed_new_new_new_new_api_new_dataaa_pabitra_eight",
        "ml_total_unique_users_api_testo_pabitra_new1_one",
        "ml_total_submissions_api_test_pabitra_new1_final_two",
        "total_entities_observed_new_new_new_api_test_pabitra_new1_final_three",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_users_who_submitted_form_api_test_pabitra_new1_final_four",
        "district_wise_no_of_submissions_vs_observation_status_new_new_new_api_test_pabitra_new1_final_five",
        "ml_criteria_wise_unique_entities_at_each_level_api_test_p_new1_final_six",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_entities_observed_new_new_api_test_pabitra_new1_final_seven",
        "ml_domain_wise_unique_entities_at_each_level_new_new_new_new_api_test_new_pabitra_new1_final_eight",
        "ml_unique_users_who_started_form_new_new_api_test_pabitra_new1_final_nine",
        "ml_district_wise_observation_status_and_entities_observed_PDR_table",
        "ml_improvement_projects_status_by_district_new_table",
        "ml_improvement_project_big_numbers_samp_twoo",
        "ml_status_of_improvement_projects_district_wise_new_samplee_threee",
        "ml_no_of_users_district_wise_new_samplee_fourr",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_certificate_issued_new",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_in_started_status_currently_neww",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_in_in_progress_status_currently",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_submitted_till_date",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_submitted_with_evidence_till_date",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_by_state_table",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_by_district_table",
        "ml_improvement_projects_status_by_district_table",
        "ml_improvement_project_big_numbers_alpha",
        "ml_status_of_improvement_projects_district_wise_alpha",
        "ml_no_of_users_district_wise_alpha",
        "ml_no_of_improvements_certificate_issued",
        "ml_no_of_observations_in_started_status_currently",
        "ml_no_of_observations_submitted_till_date",
        "ml_unique_users_who_submitted_form_onew1_api",
        "ml_unique_users_who_started_form_new1_api",
        "ml_total_submissions_new_api",
        "ml_total_entities_observed_new_api",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_users_who_submitted_form_new1_api",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_entities_observed_new1_api",
        "ml_district_wise_observation_status_and_entities_observed_new_api",
        "ml_district_wise_no_of_submissions_vs_observation_status_new_api",
        "ml_unique_users_who_submitted_form_new_api",
        "ml_unique_users_who_started_form_new_api",
        "total_submissions_new_new_new_new_api",
        "total_entities_observed_new_new_new_new_api",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_users_who_submitted_form_new_api",
        "district_wise_no_of_submissions_vs_observation_status_new_api",
        "ml_district_wise_unique_entities_observed_new_api",
        "ml_domain_wise_unique_entities_at_each_level_api",
        "ml_criteria_wise_unique_entities_at_each_level_api",
        "ml_district_wise_observation_status_and_entities_observed_table"    

